xv6 is a re-implementation of Dennis Ritchie's and Ken Thompson's Unix
Version 6 (v6).  xv6 loosely follows the structure and style of v6,
but is implemented for a modern RISC-V multiprocessor using ANSI C.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

xv6 is inspired by John Lions's Commentary on UNIX 6th Edition (Peer
to Peer Communications; ISBN: 1-57398-013-7; 1st edition (June 14,
2000)).  See also https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.1810/, which provides
pointers to on-line resources for v6.

The following people have made contributions: Russ Cox (context switching,
locking), Cliff Frey (MP), Xiao Yu (MP), Nickolai Zeldovich, and Austin
Clements.

We are also grateful for the bug reports and patches contributed by
Takahiro Aoyagi, Marcelo Arroyo, Silas Boyd-Wickizer, Anton Burtsev,
carlclone, Ian Chen, Dan Cross, Cody Cutler, Mike CAT, Tej Chajed,
Asami Doi,Wenyang Duan, eyalz800, Nelson Elhage, Saar Ettinger, Alice
Ferrazzi, Nathaniel Filardo, flespark, Peter Froehlich, Yakir Goaron,
Shivam Handa, Matt Harvey, Bryan Henry, jaichenhengjie, Jim Huang,
Matúš Jókay, John Jolly, Alexander Kapshuk, Anders Kaseorg, kehao95,
Wolfgang Keller, Jungwoo Kim, Jonathan Kimmitt, Eddie Kohler, Vadim
Kolontsov, Austin Liew, l0stman, Pavan Maddamsetti, Imbar Marinescu,
Yandong Mao, Matan Shabtay, Hitoshi Mitake, Carmi Merimovich, Mark
Morrissey, mtasm, Joel Nider, Hayato Ohhashi, OptimisticSide,
phosphagos, Harry Porter, Greg Price, RayAndrew, Jude Rich, segfault,
Ayan Shafqat, Eldar Sehayek, Yongming Shen, Fumiya Shigemitsu, snoire,
Taojie, Cam Tenny, tyfkda, Warren Toomey, Stephen Tu, Alissa Tung,
Rafael Ubal, Amane Uehara, Pablo Ventura, Xi Wang, WaheedHafez,
Keiichi Watanabe, Lucas Wolf, Nicolas Wolovick, wxdao, Grant Wu, x653,
Jindong Zhang, Icenowy Zheng, ZhUyU1997, and Zou Chang Wei.

ERROR REPORTS

Please send errors and suggestions to Frans Kaashoek and Robert Morris
(kaashoek,rtm@mit.edu).  The main purpose of xv6 is as a teaching
operating system for MIT's 6.1810, so we are more interested in
simplifications and clarifications than new features.

BUILDING AND RUNNING XV6

You will need a RISC-V "newlib" tool chain from
https://github.com/riscv/riscv-gnu-toolchain, and qemu compiled for
riscv64-softmmu.  Once they are installed, and in your shell
search path, you can run "make qemu".


Project 3 Scheduler Modifcations:

- roc.c:
>In the allocproc() function, initialized the tickets and ticks variables.
>In the fork() function, set the child process's tickets to inherit from the parent process's tickets.
>In the scheduler() function, updated the code to compute the total number of tickets, generate a random number using the scaled_random() function, and select the winning process based on the winning ticket.

- proc.h
>Added tickets and ticks fields to the struct proc{}.

- pstat.h (new file)
>Created pstat.h to allow passing process statistics, such as ticks and tickets, to user space.

syscall.c
>Implemented the system calls getpinfo() and settickets().

- syscall.h
>Added system call numbers for getpinfo() and settickets().

- sysproc.c
Implemented the functions for the getpinfo() and settickets() system calls.

- user.h
>Declared the system call interfaces for settickets() and getpinfo().

- getpinfo.c (new file)
>Implemented getpinfo() to display the process's ticks and tickets on the command line.

- usys.pl
> Added entries for the getpinfo() and settickets() system calls.

- Makefile
> Added the random number generator to the OBJS list and included the hardwork.c test code in UPROGS.

- hardwork.c (new file)
>Added a test file for the random number generator functionality.

- random.c (new file)
> Created a random number generator as provided.

- random.h (new file)
> Declared the functions scaled_random() and rand_init().
